.github/prompts/commit.prompt.md, before:

# Commit Message Guidelines

You are a senior software engineer responsible for ensuring best practices for writing professional, clear, concise, and informative commit messages.

## Goal

Read the entire file named `changes.diff` located in the root folder of the project workspace to get context on all changes made. If this file is not available, try to obtain the latest changes using git.
Your task is to generate professional, meaningful, and structured commit messages that document all changes in the codebase.
Your task is also to ensure that adhering to these guidelines improves code maintainability, facilitates collaboration, and streamlines the development process.

## Core Principles

- **Clarity**: Use precise language, avoiding jargon and ambiguity.
- **Conciseness**: Keep messages brief and focused, conveying the essence of the change.
- **Structure**: Follow the Conventional Commits specification (<https://www.conventionalcommits.org/>) for consistency.
- **Context**: Provide sufficient detail to understand the "what" and "why" of the change.

## 📌 Summary Line

The summary line is the most visible part of your commit message. It should be informative and quickly convey the purpose of the commit.

- **Format:** `<Emoji> <Type>: <Description>`
- **Length:** Maximum 100 characters (for compatibility with various tools).
- **Type:** Use one of the types from the emoji list below.
- **Description:** A concise summary of the change. Use imperative mood (e.g., "Add user authentication" not "Added user - authentication").

Start always with an emoji to visually categorize the change type.
**Always use the same emoji for the same category to maintain consistency.**, use this list of emojis to categorize the change type:

- 🚀 Feature: Use for introducing new features or significant functionality. Indicates user-facing or system enhancements.
- 🐛 Fix: Use for bug fixes or error corrections. Indicates resolution of issues affecting correctness or stability.
- 🛠️ Refactor: Use for code restructuring or improvements that do not alter external behavior. Indicates cleaner, more maintainable code.
- 📚 Docs: Use for documentation changes or additions. Indicates updates to README, inline docs, or other non-code content.
- 🧪 Test: Use for adding or modifying tests. Indicates improvements to test coverage or test reliability.
- 🎨 Style: Use for formatting, code style, or non-functional whitespace changes. Indicates no impact on code logic.
- ⚡  Performance: Use for performance optimizations. Indicates faster execution, reduced resource usage, or scalability improvements.
- 🔧 Config: Use for configuration file changes. Indicates updates to settings, environment, or project configuration.
- 📦 Dependency: Use for dependency updates or management. Indicates changes to requirements, libraries, or package versions.
- 🔒 Security: Use for security-related changes. Indicates vulnerability fixes, permission updates, or security hardening.
- 🔄 Update: Use for general updates that don't fit other categories. Indicates minor or routine changes.
- 🗑️ Remove: Use for removing code, files, or dependencies. Indicates cleanup or deprecation.
- 🚧 WIP: Use for work-in-progress commits. Indicates incomplete features or experimental changes not ready for production.
- 🔍 Review: Use for code review changes or feedback incorporation. Indicates adjustments based on peer review.
- 🧹 Cleanup: Use for general codebase tidying. Indicates removal of unused code, files, or technical debt.
- 🔀 Merge: Use for merging branches or resolving conflicts. Indicates integration of changes from different branches.

## 🔍 Detailed Description

Provide additional context and details about the changes made. This section is particularly important for complex changes or bug fixes.

- **Always use bullet points** to list key modifications after the summary line.
- Start each bullet point with an action verb in the imperative mood (e.g., "Fix race condition," "Update documentation").
- Explain the "what" and "why" of the change, not just the "how."
- Include relevant issue (e.g., "Fixed problem xxx").
- If applicable, quantify performance improvements
- **Always end the commit message with `#deployondev`.**

Example:

```plaintext
🚀 Feature: Implement user authentication

- Add JWT token generation and validation.
- Create login and refresh token endpoints.
- Secure protected routes with authentication middleware.

#deployondev
```

## Excluded Files

The following files/patterns are excluded from these guidelines, typically because they are automatically generated:

- `.github/**`
- `.clinerules*`
- `uv.lock`
- `requirements.txt`
- `changes.diff`

Commit message:

🚀 Feature: Introduce BenzoApp project structure and guidelines
- Create initial project overview in AGENTS.md, defining roles and environment setup.
- Add Python project instructions in docs/agents/py.instructions.md, detailing coding standards and best practices.
- Implement main application runner in _main.py for FastAPI using Uvicorn.
- Establish chat modes for GPT-5 mini in .github/chatmodes, enhancing AI coding assistant capabilities.
- Add open_model_folder.sh script for easy access to the model directory in Windows.
- Ensure all changes adhere to security and performance best practices.

.github/prompts/commit.prompt.md, after:

# Commit Message Guidelines

## Goal

- Execute file `git_diff.sh` in workspace dir in bash shell, to save the latest changes in 'changes.diff'.
- Read file `changes.diff` - located in workspace dir - to generate professional, meaningful, and structured commit message that document all changes in the codebase. Ask everything not clear.

## Core Principles

- **Clarity**: Use precise language, avoiding jargon and ambiguity.
- **Conciseness**: Keep messages brief and focused, conveying the essence of the change.
- **Structure**: Follow the Conventional Commits specification (<https://www.conventionalcommits.org/>) for consistency.
- **Context**: Provide sufficient detail to understand the "what" and "why" of the change.

## 📌 Summary Line

The summary line is the most visible part of your commit message. It should be informative and quickly convey the purpose of the commit.

- **Format:** `<Emoji> <Type>: <Description>`
- **Length:** Maximum 100 characters (for compatibility with various tools).
- **Type:** Use one of the types from the emoji list below.
- **Description:** A concise summary of the change. Use imperative mood (e.g., "Add user authentication" not "Added user - authentication").

Start always with an emoji to visually categorize the change type.
**Always use the same emoji for the same category to maintain consistency.**, use this list of emojis to categorize the change type:

- 🚀 Feature: Use for introducing new features or significant functionality. Indicates user-facing or system enhancements.
- 🐛 Fix: Use for bug fixes or error corrections. Indicates resolution of issues affecting correctness or stability.
- 🛠️ Refactor: Use for code restructuring or improvements that do not alter external behavior. Indicates cleaner, more maintainable code.
- 📚 Docs: Use for documentation changes or additions. Indicates updates to README, inline docs, or other non-code content.
- 🧪 Test: Use for adding or modifying tests. Indicates improvements to test coverage or test reliability.
- 🎨 Style: Use for formatting, code style, or non-functional whitespace changes. Indicates no impact on code logic.
- ⚡  Performance: Use for performance optimizations. Indicates faster execution, reduced resource usage, or scalability improvements.
- 🔧 Config: Use for configuration file changes. Indicates updates to settings, environment, or project configuration.
- 📦 Dependency: Use for dependency updates or management. Indicates changes to requirements, libraries, or package versions.
- 🔒 Security: Use for security-related changes. Indicates vulnerability fixes, permission updates, or security hardening.
- 🔄 Update: Use for general updates that don't fit other categories. Indicates minor or routine changes.
- 🗑️ Remove: Use for removing code, files, or dependencies. Indicates cleanup or deprecation.
- 🚧 WIP: Use for work-in-progress commits. Indicates incomplete features or experimental changes not ready for production.
- 🔍 Review: Use for code review changes or feedback incorporation. Indicates adjustments based on peer review.
- 🧹 Cleanup: Use for general codebase tidying. Indicates removal of unused code, files, or technical debt.
- 🔀 Merge: Use for merging branches or resolving conflicts. Indicates integration of changes from different branches.

## 🔍 Detailed Description

Provide additional context and details about the changes made. This section is particularly important for complex changes or bug fixes.

- **Always use bullet points** to list key modifications after the summary line.
- Start each bullet point with an action verb in the imperative mood (e.g., "Fix race condition," "Update documentation").
- Explain the "what" and "why" of the change, not just the "how."
- Include relevant issue (e.g., "Fixed problem xxx").
- If applicable, quantify performance improvements
- **Always end the commit message with `#deployondev`.**

Example:

```plaintext
🚀 Feature: Implement user authentication

- Add JWT token generation and validation.
- Create login and refresh token endpoints.
- Secure protected routes with authentication middleware.

#deployondev
```

## Excluded Files

The following files/patterns are excluded, typically because they are automatically generated:

- `.github/**`
- `.roo*`
- `uv.lock`
- `requirements.txt`
- `changes.diff`
